Symbolic World Modeling Challenge
Flag Problem
Domain
Sequence To Sequence
Difficulty
Hard
Scoring
↑ Higher is better
Status
Accepted
Dataset source is visible after the challenge closes.
Description
Leaderboard
(0)
Rubrics
Your Submissions
Symbolic World Modeling Challenge
Overview
In this challenge, participants train an autoregressive model to predict the future evolution of synthetic symbolic grid worlds from a small set of demonstrations. Each task contains several demonstration episodes showing how the same hidden transformation logic evolves a grid over time, followed by one held-out test episode where only the initial frame is given. The goal is to predict the missing future frames for the test episode.

The data is fully synthetic. Each grid is a 2D board of integer-valued cells representing symbolic entities such as empty space, walls, seeds, movers, hunters, runners, beacons, paint, and other abstract tokens. A task is generated by a latent rule program: a hidden composition of symbolic update rules such as growth, pursuit, recoloring, copying, gating, and phase-triggered changes. Participants do not see that rule program directly. Instead, they must infer it from the demonstration episodes and generalize it to the held-out test episode.

This is an LLM-style structured sequence modeling challenge rather than a natural-language benchmark. The main skills being tested are long-context sequence modeling, in-context rule inference, compositional generalization, and robustness to hard unseen transformation families under strict compute limits.

Evaluation
Submissions are scored using Exact Sequence Match Accuracy.

Each test sample is correct only if the predicted serialized target sequence matches the ground-truth serialized target sequence exactly.

def evaluate(y_true, y_pred):  
    correct = sum(int(t == p) for t, p in zip(y_true, y_pred))  
    return correct / len(y_true)  
Dataset
The prepare script produces the following files:

public/train.csv - labeled training tasks
public/test.csv - unlabeled evaluation tasks
public/sample_submission.csv - example submission format
Each row in the prepared dataset is one symbolic world task. A task contains:

3-5 demonstration episodes
1 held-out test episode
5-8 total frames per episode, depending on the task
Each frame is a grid of integers. In the prepared CSV files, these structured grids are serialized into text so that they can be used directly by sequence models.

Serialization format:

The input field is a newline-delimited prompt
Special tags mark task boundaries and episode structure, for example:
<task_id>
<grid_size>
<time_steps>
<num_demos>
<demo_0>
<frame_0>
<test>
<input_frame>
<predict_future_frames>
Grid rows are written as space-separated integer tokens such as:
3 13 3 0 1 1 1 1
Demonstration episodes include all frames
The test episode includes only the initial frame in input
The future test frames are serialized into target using tags such as:
<target_frame_1>
<target_frame_2>
This means the challenge is a structured next-sequence prediction task: given demonstrations and a test input frame, predict the exact serialized future-frame sequence.

Prepared CSV schema:

train.csv

Column	Type	Description
id	string	Unique task identifier
input	string	Serialized prompt containing demonstrations and the test input frame
target	string	Serialized future-frame target sequence for the test episode
grid_height	int	Grid height
grid_width	int	Grid width
time_steps	int	Number of frames per episode
num_demos	int	Number of demonstration episodes
program_length	int	Coarse difficulty signal from the public metadata
test.csv

Column	Type	Description
id	string	Unique task identifier
input	string	Serialized prompt containing demonstrations and the test input frame
grid_height	int	Grid height
grid_width	int	Grid width
time_steps	int	Number of frames per episode
num_demos	int	Number of demonstration episodes
program_length	int	Coarse difficulty signal from the public metadata
The target and prediction values must use exactly the same serialization scheme: newline-delimited tagged future frames with space-separated integer rows.

Submission
Submit a CSV file with the following format:

Column	Type	Description
id	string	Row identifier from test.csv
prediction	string	Predicted serialized future-frame sequence
Requirements:

Must contain exactly one row per sample in test.csv
Must contain the columns id and prediction
Must include a header row
Rows may be in any order, but every id must appear exactly once
Example prediction value:

<target_frame_1>  
3 13 3 0 1 1 1 1  
13 13 13 0 1 1 1 1  
<target_frame_2>  
3 13 3 3 0 2 0 3  
13 13 13 3 1 1 1 1  
 

 Author’s Initial Rubric
6 criteria
0 items
·
0 contributors
·
Draft
The agent must preserve task grouping and episode structure during preprocessing, and must not flatten demonstrations and test targets into unrelated independent rows

This challenge is fundamentally a few-shot latent-rule inference task. Breaking task boundaries destroys the in-context learning signal and produces an invalid training setup.

DATA HANDLING
REQUIRED
The agent should train an autoregressive sequence model or another architecture that explicitly conditions on the full serialized demonstration context before predicting future test frames.

Good performance depends on using the demonstrations to infer hidden world dynamics. Methods that ignore the provided context are unlikely to generalize on held-out compositions.

MODELING
REQUIRED
The agent must use a validation strategy that avoids leakage from held-out challenge targets, and should not tune on private-answer information or reconstruct the split policy from hidden files

The benchmark is designed around generalization to unseen hard patterns. Any leakage from hidden answers or challenge internals invalidates the evaluation.

TRAINING
REQUIRED
The agent should use sequence packing, batching by similar lengths, or comparable efficiency techniques to make effective use of limited GPU time.

Samples are long structured sequences. Naive batching wastes substantial compute and will underperform under the strict 60-90 minute training budget.

TRAINING
RECOMMENDED
The agent should serialize or tokenize the grid-world data consistently and reversibly, so that predictions can be mapped back to exact target frame sequences without ambiguity.

The grader uses exact sequence match. Ambiguous serialization, lossy formatting, or inconsistent delimiters will produce avoidable failures even if the model learns useful patterns.

FEATURE ENGINEERING
REQUIRED
The agent’s code should produce a correctly formatted submission with one prediction per test id and should fail safely when shapes, ids, or sequence formats do not match expectations.

Exact-match evaluation is unforgiving. Many otherwise reasonable solutions fail because of formatting, row-count mismatches, or broken decoding pipelines rather than modeling weakness.

CODE QUALITY
REQUIRED