Multi-Hop Evidence Chain Challenge
Editor View
Multi-Hop Evidence Chain Challenge
Flag Problem
Domain
RAG
Difficulty
Medium
Scoring
↑ Higher is better
Status
Accepted
Tags:
text
feature-engineering
small-data
generative
Dataset source is visible after the challenge closes.
Description
Leaderboard
(5)
Rubrics
Your Submissions
1. Overview

This challenge evaluates a model’s ability to extract relevant information and derive answers directly from a pool of anonymized evidence sentences. The task focuses on whether a system can identify which pieces of text justify an answer when all contextual structure has been removed.

The twists are participants must rely entirely on the semantic content of individual sentences rather than external knowledge or document organization. Because models often carry strong prior knowledge, the task intentionally creates situations where relying on that knowledge can lead to incorrect answers if it contradicts the provided evidence.

The objective is to build a model that:

Identifies the specific sentences within a shuffled pool that support the answer to a question
Produces the correct answer using only the information contained in those sentences
What participants receive:

A flat, shuffled JSON pool of sentences identified only by anonymous codes (C001, C002, ...)
A question that can be answered using information present within the pool
A question type label describing the reasoning pattern involved
Without article boundaries, titles, or document metadata, participants cannot rely on structural cues to locate evidence. Every sentence must be evaluated independently based on its meaning and relevance to the question.

Instead of interpreting a structured passage, the context_pool functions as an unordered set of anonymous claims. Solving each problem requires selecting the correct evidence sentences and using them to derive the answer strictly from the provided text.

The dataset contains 350 puzzles in total, split into:

100 training puzzles
250 test puzzles
2. Evaluation

Submissions are scored using an equal-weight combination of evidence identification accuracy and answer accuracy.

Final Score:

Final Score = 0.5 × Evidence Accuracy + 0.5 × Answer Accuracy
Evidence Accuracy

Participants submit a set of sentence IDs representing the evidence chain for each puzzle.

Example:

C004 C011 
A prediction is correct only when the submitted ID set exactly matches the gold set. Order does not matter.

Evidence Accuracy = (Exact-set-match predictions) / N 
Answer Accuracy

Participants submit a plain-text answer for each puzzle.

Example:

Panda
Matching is case-insensitive and whitespace-normalized. An exact match after normalization counts as correct.

Answer Accuracy = (Correct answer predictions) / N

Reference Implementation:

def normalize(s):
    return s.strip().lower()

evidence_accuracy = np.mean([
    set(pred.split()) == set(gold.split())
    for pred, gold in zip(pred_evidence_ids, true_evidence_ids)
])

answer_accuracy = np.mean([
    normalize(pred) == normalize(gold)
    for pred, gold in zip(pred_answers, true_answers)
])

final_score = 0.5 * evidence_accuracy + 0.5 * answer_accuracy
Both components carry equal weight because locating the evidence chain and answering from it are independent failure modes — a model can answer correctly by luck while retrieving the wrong sentences, or retrieve the right sentences but still fail to extract the answer.

To discourage leaderboard probing, the public leaderboard score is computed over a hidden private subset of 200 puzzles drawn randomly from the 250 test rows. Submissions must cover all 250 rows, but only the private subset counts toward the final ranking.

3. Data Structure

public/     
  train.csv     
  test.csv     
  sample_submission.csv 
train.csv
Full puzzle features plus ground-truth labels. Use this to develop and validate your approach.

test.csv
Puzzle features only. Submit predictions for every row in this file.

sample_submission.csv
A correctly formatted placeholder submission illustrating the expected structure.

4. Features

Puzzle Representation

question
The question to be answered. Requires reasoning across at least two sentences in the pool.
Example: Which film has the director who died earlier, Bewitched (1945 Film) or Woman and Wife?

type
The reasoning category of the question.
Values: compositional, comparison, bridge_comparison, inference

context_pool
A JSON array of shuffled, anonymized context sentences. Each element contains an id field (the anonymous sentence code) and a text field (the sentence content). Article titles, sentence groupings, and original indices have been removed. Gold sentences are LLM-paraphrased; distractor sentences are structurally obfuscated.

[   {"id": "C001", "text": "He directed several films during the silent era."},   {"id": "C002", "text": "Released in 1945, Bewitched was a psychological drama produced at MGM."},   {"id": "C003", "text": "She won multiple awards throughout her career."} ] 
5. Target Variables (training only)

evidence_ids
Space-separated sentence IDs forming the gold reasoning chain.
Example: C002 C007

answer
The ground-truth answer string.
Example: Woman and Wife

6. Submission Format

Submit a CSV file with exactly three columns:

id,evidence_ids,answer 
abc123,C004 C011,Woman and Wife 
def456,C007 C019,yes 
ghi789,C002,Charles Chaplin 
Requirements:

Exactly 250 rows matching the test set

Required column headers: id, evidence_ids, answer

evidence_ids must contain only valid IDs present in that row's context_pool, separated by spaces

answer must be a plain text string based on context_pool

For questions asking yes or no, the answer must be exactly "yes" or "no"
For questions asking for ways or actions, answers must be direct action verbs or concise action phrases like "sleep"
Date answers must use the format M/D/YYYY like "1/28/1984" with no leading zeros
For other answers not covered above, use exactly as how its referred to in the context_pool evidence like "Mc Speed"
Submissions not matching this format will be automatically rejected

Author’s Initial Rubric
5 criteria
0 items
·
0 contributors
·
Draft
Retrieve a Minimal Multi-Hop Evidence Chain

A strong solution identifies the exact set of sentences required to justify the answer, not merely a set of vaguely related sentences. Since evidence accuracy requires an exact set match, good agents retrieve only the minimal reasoning chain necessary for the answer.

CODE QUALITY
REQUIRED
Construct Cross-Sentence Reasoning Chains

Many puzzles require multi-hop inference, where one sentence introduces an entity and another provides a property or comparison needed to answer the question. Strong solutions explicitly connect these intermediate steps (e.g., entity → attribute → comparison). Weak systems treat each sentence independently and fail to assemble a coherent reasoning path.

DATA HANDLING
RECOMMENDED
Jointly Optimize Evidence Retrieval and Answer Extraction

The evaluation score equally weights evidence accuracy (0.5) and answer accuracy (0.5). Strong approaches explicitly optimize both components, ensuring that retrieved sentences directly support answer derivation.

TRAINING
RECOMMENDED
Maintain Robustness Against Distractor Sentences

The context pool intentionally includes structurally similar distractor sentences that may appear relevant but do not contribute to the reasoning chain. Effective agents evaluate logical consistency between sentences rather than relying on surface similarity.

MODELING
REQUIRED
Generalize Reasoning Beyond Training Patterns

The test puzzles may contain different entity relationships, paraphrase structures, or reasoning paths than those observed during training.

TRAINING
RECOMMENDED